docs: Install -- SAML (#4164)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/konvoy/2.1/access-authentication/howto-dex-saml-connector/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: SAML
title: SAML connector
menuWeight: 33
excerpt: Connect your Konvoy cluster to an Idp using SAML
beta: false
enterprise: false
---

## How to connect Konvoy to an IdP using SAML

This guide shows how to configure your Konvoy cluster to use SAML to connect to an identity provider (IdP).

> Step 1: [Create a Konvoy cluster](../../quick-start).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 1: [Install Kommander](../../install).
```

<EntityDescriptor xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:metadata" entityID="https://<your-cluster-host>/dex">
   <SPSSODescriptor AuthnRequestsSigned="false" WantAssertionsSigned="true" protocolSupportEnumeration="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:protocol">
      <NameIDFormat>urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:persistent</NameIDFormat>
      <AssertionConsumerService index="0" isDefault="true" Binding="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-POST" Location="https://<your-cluster-host>/dex/callback" />
   </SPSSODescriptor>
</EntityDescriptor>
```

Step 3: Modify the `dex` addon in your `cluster.yaml` file:

For this step, you will need to get the following from your IdP:

- single sign-on URL or SAML URL -> `ssoURL`
- base64 encoded, PEM encoded CA certificate -> `caData`
- username attribute name in SAML response -> `usernameAttr`
- email attribute name in SAML response -> `emailAttr`

From step 2 you need:

- issuer URL -> `entityIssuer`
- callback URL -> `redirectURI`

Make sure you base64 encode the contents of the PEM file. As an example, the prefix of the contents will result into this exact base64 prefix:

```text
LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBDRVJUSUZJQ0FURS0tLS0tC[...]
```

> Update your `dex` addon configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add the configuration as the values field in the `dex` application. An example `dex` configuration provided to the Kommander CLI’s install command would look similar to this:
```

Looked at https://docs.d2iq.com/dkp/kommander/2.1/security/oidc/#add-login-connectors for inspiration

```yaml
    - name: dex
      enabled: true
      values: |
        config:
          connectors:
          - type: saml
            id: saml
            name: SAML
            config:
              ssoURL: <url for POST request>
              caData: < base64 PEM encoded CA for the IdP server >
              redirectURI: https://<your-cluster-host>/dex/callback
              entityIssuer: https://<your-cluster-host>/dex
              usernameAttr: < user attribute in saml response >

>               emailAttr: < email attribute in saml response >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: config.kommander.mesosphere.io/v1alpha1
kind: Installation
apps:
  dex:
    values: |
      config:
        connectors:
        - type: saml
          id: saml
          name: SAML
          config:
            ssoURL: <url for POST request>
            caData: < base64 PEM encoded CA for the IdP server >
            redirectURI: https://<your-cluster-host>/dex/callback
            entityIssuer: https://<your-cluster-host>/dex
            usernameAttr: < user attribute in saml response >
            emailAttr: < email attribute in saml response >
[...]
```

```

> Step 4: Modify `traefik-foward-auth` addon in your `cluster.yaml` and add a whitelist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 4: Modify the `traefik-foward-auth` configuration and add a whitelist:
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: SAML
title: SAML connector
menuWeight: 33

> excerpt: Connect your Konvoy cluster to an Idp using SAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: Connect your Kommander cluster to an Idp using SAML
```

beta: false
enterprise: false
---

> ## How to connect Konvoy to an IdP using SAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to connect Kommander to an IdP using SAML
```

> This guide shows how to configure your Konvoy cluster to use SAML to connect to an identity provider (IdP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows how to configure your Kommander cluster to use SAML to connect to an identity provider (IdP).
```
